 {:title "Thinking in Agile"
 :layout :post
 :tags ["en" "agile" "software" "software-development" "system"
 "system-thinking" "thinking-in-systems"]}

# Agile Aims to Enhance "Information Flow" and the "Self Organization" in a Software Development System

When I say "Agile," I am referring to the ideas derived from the
[Manifesto for Agile Software
Development](https://agilemanifesto.org/).

When I say "Software Development System," I mean the organization that
develops software in response to software requirements and
observations of the domain of interest.

I use the term on deliberately because this assertion is expressed
through the lens of **System thinking**.

The [Thinking in
Systems](https://www.google.ca/books/edition/Thinking_in_Systems/CpbLAgAAQBAJ)
book, define "Leverage Points" as places to intervene a System for
great effect.  They are commonly understood as places where small
changes can cause significant shifts in a system's behaviour.

Two of of the most important leverage points where you can intervene to make changes in a system are:

 - **The Information Flows**:  
These include the feedback loops that regulate the system's behaviour.
 - **Self-Organization**:  
The ability of a system to change itself in response to new realities.

Improving the quality, timeliness, and clarity of the information
flows (e.g. through faster feedback loops) will almost inevitably
enhance the performance of the system.

Additionally, by avoiding the illusion of full control and embracing
the laws of thermodynamics, and the lessons of reality, evolution,
history, and economics (think Adam Smith's ideas of free market and
contemporary thinkers like Javier Milei), you will find that
encouraging self-organiation also leads to improved system
performance.

These are the key leverage points that the authors of the [Agile
Manifesto]((https://agilemanifesto.org/)) address in what I refer to
as "Software Development Systems" (just for the purpose of this single
article) though the Manifesto simply refers to "Software Development"
as a practice, discipline or (I think) as "the Software Industry".

I think in essence, Agile aimed to keep the feedback loop between
software developers and users as close, clear, and effective as
possible, while empowering teams to make organizational changes that
support this quality.

This, I believe, is the essence of "Agility" in broader terms.
Something is agile if it can responds swiftly to new information, even
by adaptation itself.

However, I suspect that the principles outlined in the Manifesto work
best for a particular subset of "systems". As some of the original
signatories of the Manifesto have pointed out, "Agile is a small
technique for small to medium sized software teams to build small to
medium sized software projects" â€“ [Uncle
Bob](https://x.com/unclebobmartin/status/1178281422550945792).

But I believe that "Agility" is still achievable and, and desirable,
even for large organizations.  Whie these organizations may not
strictly follow the 12 Agile principles, they can still aim to
positively intervene in the the "Information Flows" and the "Self
Organization" capacities of their teams to increase Agility.
